[Music]
distraction is the biggest enemy of your
productivity
as a test try to watch this video until
the very end
without clicking off the video doesn't
last even 10 minutes
yet it takes at least 23 minutes to get
fully involved in the process of work
after you've lost concentration for even
a moment
well to be precise it's actually 1395
seconds
so to start being really productive make
your workplace as
non-distracting as possible don't try to
multitask
chances are you won't complete anything
challenging if you're scrolling your
social media feed simultaneously
so turn on silent mode or even fright
mode to stop notifications
and once you've started working don't
take a short every 10 minutes break
now what if your brain just won't do
anything hard
give it a workout the best way to really
jump start your gray matter
is to use all five senses simultaneously
go to a farmer's market or have lunch at
that nice restaurant you wanted to visit
food is a great way to activate all your
senses which involves different parts of
your brain
you'll trigger your sense of smell and
taste sight and hearing and touch
and your brain will feel refreshed and
ready to work
looking for a way to trick yourself into
being productive
a competitive spirit can help a simple
contest
even ones like who loses more pounds
this month
always makes people more productive than
usual
another trick to begin difficult things
is to eat a frog first thing in the
morning
found she like french cuisine but really
it means to do your biggest and hardest
tasks
first because when you leave the hard
stuff for later
you stress over it which makes you less
productive
to reward yourself after any unpleasant
frog eating
treat yourself to some watermelon they
beat fatigue
a banana can be great too sometimes the
hardest part is to
just start your tasks lie to yourself
when you begin
and tell yourself that as you finish
this task you'll be done working for the
day
and you'll go to the movies with an
extra large popcorn
or another reward when you finish the
task
chances are you won't go to the movies
and will continue working instead
don't choose feed scrolling as a reward
though
15 minutes online seems harmless but
scrolling gets your dopamine
a neurotransmitter that makes us feel
pleasure to an
excessive level this causes addiction
and makes
everything else seem boring so the more
you reward yourself with social media
when a task
accomplished the harder it will be to
complete the next one
20 minutes of exercise is a perfect
reward for your body and mind
exercise sets your dopamine to a normal
level
physical activity pumps more blood to
your brain
your muscles may be tired after a
workout but you're going to be
more focused than ever exercise helps
our body produce essential
neurotransmitters
such as endorphins and serotonin oh by
the way
even the simplest house chores count as
exercise
maybe it's high time you dusted the
shelves
if you're having trouble learning
something new you should try to teach it
you'll have to explain the concept and
you'll find any mistakes you might make
too
suppose you're struggling with a
challenging math topic
try watching a youtube video and then
inviting a friend over
to teach it to them five hours of
cramming and still no result
maybe it's too quiet crank up some good
tunes that will fire up your creativity
and help you find the solution faster
melodic instrumentals are the best
choice
it increases dopamine levels by up to
nine percent
some companies that introduce music as
part of their corporate culture
claim that staff productivity got 40
percent higher
whenever you feel demotivated facing a
massive task
try not to do everything at once split
it into several sub tasks
first write a plan set the key points
write the speech and then think of a
presentation
don't forget the reward system you know
cuddle your cat or eat a piece of cake
when you accomplish any of the tasks
reward yourself
by releasing some dopamine spring
cleaning your mind
may be an excellent way to trick it into
being more productive
the right food can be the best way to
refresh your brain
our brain needs fatty acids to oxygenate
so fish nuts and seeds are the fuel your
brain might want a good night's sleep is
also a must for feeling good
but if you need to boost your brain
activity right here
and right now try a power nap
only 45 to 60 minutes are enough yeah
this one probably sounds like a poor
sleep habit
but it actually increases brain activity
and improves your memory
research showed that people who were
allowed to have a quick
hour-long nap managed to recall new
words more easily than those who watch
dvds instead an excellent way to train
your brain
is to draw a map from memory map the
city you live in
assuming it's not monoway a town with a
population of
one includes significant streets and
places of interest
if it seems too easy draw the u.s map
including all states
it boosts your memory creativity and
activates different areas of the brain
use your non-dominant hand to increase
brain activity
try switching hands while having lunch
scratching your back
or when grabbing a snack from the fridge
even brushing your teeth seems
complicated when you change
hands the more you do it the more alive
your brain will be
one more quick activity is to name two
objects that start with each letter of
your first or last name
so if you're mike you can have a monkey
mud
iceberg igloo kettle kid elephant
and eel too easy reorder the months in
the alphabetical order
you'll start with april then december
and so on
do it without pen and paper to make it a
real challenge
still too easy try reverse alphabetical
order
just a hint september comes first
here's a brain workout you can do right
now
set your stopwatch for 60 seconds and
study these eight
unrelated words chair
dentist shoes cabbage squirrel
door horseshoe jug
now take a break and do something else
for 10 minutes
then try to remember the words
here's another one for right now look
around and find
five green objects and five red objects
this trains your brain and your eyes
let's try another game to boost your
brain energy
here's the word tall the task is to
change
one letter at a time until the word tall
turns into the word sale answer
tall fall fail
sale be kind to your short-term memory
we all have our limits so just take
quick notes whenever you need to
remember something important
hey you made it through to the end of
the video
watch at least 23 minutes of our videos
to really boost your brain
and get fully involved in the bright
side
[Music]